Hey YouTube, hey Brian.
- Hey.
- Thanks everyone who is watching live.
As usual, put your ideas in the live chat
and we'll see what we can do with that.
And with that, let's kick it off.
- Okay.
- Hello and welcome to Python Bytes
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 304, recorded October 5th, 2022.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
I'm Brian Okken.
>> Hey, Brian.
>> Hey, you threw me for a wrench
with the whole date thing.
>> I know.
Well, in our notes it has yesterday,
but then we had to move it.
>> Yeah, because I mean--
>> Some of us have meetings.
Yeah, so we moved plenty for me.
Plenty of moving.
Yeah, very cool.
Well, great to be back with you.
Also, we have a sponsor that sponsored before,
but has been a while, a compiler from Red Hat.
Excellent show.
Tell you more about that later.
For now, Brian, I'm kind of hungry. What can you do for me here?
I've got tasty ingredients for let's see, add to stream, tasty ingredients for a delicious pull
request. So it's October now. So that means Hacktoberfest for some people, right? So,
and actually, I didn't really want to just highlight Hacktoberfest. What I really like
about this. So this is an article 10 tasty ingredients for a delicious pull request.
It's on the Wagtail blog and from LB on the Wagtail core team member.
So thanks LB.
But this, it's kind of neat because it's not,
yeah, it's kind of click-baity,
but also it's just,
it's actually nice information.
So whether you're starting open source project or
starting want to start helping out with an open source project,
or I think these tips are great,
or at least majority of them are great even for people that
are used to developing solo and are moving into developing
with a team of people or a group of people.
And I've had questions about that,
even from companies of like,
yeah, we wanna kind of work better as a team.
How do we do that?
So I'm gonna run through these quickly.
There's 10 of them.
First one is great.
It's read the documentation
or read the development instructions.
So a lot of projects have contributing guidelines.
So actually read those and understand them.
When we're used to it, it's just a, hey, fork it and go.
But that's not trivial for some people, so.
- Right, well, you may have non-obvious details.
Like for example, maybe you just fork the repo,
you do your work there and you contribute.
But well, you should obviously create a branch in your repo
so that if they decide to not take it,
then how do you stay in sync, right?
That's one of them.
Another one is, well, maybe when you do the PR,
it doesn't go back to the main branch,
it goes to some other like dev branch or something, right?
Like you need to know, here's where you put PR back to you.
And just like those kinds of details for, hey, we're a team.
- Yeah, and then also there's details
like how do you run the tests
and are there extra stuff that you have to install
or any settings or for a lot of projects,
it's just, you know, do a virtual environment
and clone it and go.
But there's some that have like extra bits
that you have to set up.
So good to read the instructions.
But then we're going into things like read the issues
and comments.
So if you wanna help out,
this is a great way is to read the issues,
but don't just jump in and try to solve it right away.
Read the comments around the issue.
Also PRs that are related to the issue,
if there's any PRs linked,
because there's somebody that might be started on a fix
and you wanna help either help them get unstuck
or just help out.
You don't wanna just take over and say,
oh, I could solve this if somebody else is working on it
already, but maybe you do, there's different ways,
but pay attention to that, so that's good.
Create a fresh branch for your contribution,
like you mentioned, it isn't always obvious
because I'm already forking, what do we need a branch for?
But it does help with the branch model
when it comes back in, it just looks better.
- It's not necessary until your change is not accepted
accepted, or you want to make two changes, right? Yeah, like,
if you ever want to get back in sync with the main repo, you
need to do something else.
And it might be very much a possibility that you want to
make several changes, you're really excited about a project,
and you're making several. And like you said, there, there
might be a lot of discussion around some and some of them are
trivial things like fixing readme or something. And so
yeah, multiple, do a branch so that you've got multiple names.
And that's where we come to the next tip for is
keep the change focused.
So if a project would much rather have
several focused pull requests than a single pull request
with like four different changes in it
that are completely unrelated.
So keep them focused.
And this is great for personal
or closed source projects too.
It just makes the code review easier.
And when you get in the habit of doing focused changes,
It just, it's not harder.
It's just a workflow you gotta get used to.
Next is write unit tests.
Definitely for the changes,
but one of the comments that I loved in this
as a bonus tip is there might be some
either untested features in the project or under tested
and adding tests around those features that you care about
is a great way to contribute to a code base.
So keep that in mind.
- Really good point because people often think,
well, what can I do to contribute?
I'm not an expert.
Well, if it's missing tests, that's pretty easy.
- And there could be even like,
so there's an idea of like testing is documentation
and some tests work well like that and some tests do not.
So a great way also just to walk through,
make tests around the onboarding documentation,
like the getting starting guide,
making sure that those features are tested
is a good thing to throw in there.
Give your pull request name,
request a name with context.
So naming well is good.
And don't be surprised if your pull request name
gets changed by one of the core contributors.
That's not, it's just so that everybody can track
what's going on inside better.
So just learn from that.
- If mine is associated with an issue,
I try to put the issue number as part of the branch.
- Yes.
- That I'm like, you know, it'd be like add such and such.
If that add such and such is actually to fix, you know,
issue 221, it'd be like the branch would be, you know,
add such and such 221 or whatever for the branch name.
Just so you're like, where the heck did this come from?
Why is it here?
Oh yeah, that's right.
I can go find it.
- Yep.
And reference the issue being fixed
or resolved in the pull request.
So referencing the issue in a way that,
and you kind of got to get used to this with GitHub
or GitLab or other things.
They'll link to the thing.
It links things up if you name it correctly.
So just play with that.
And then some again,
and then hopefully there's CI going on in tests.
So if your pull request has a break,
the test fail, address those.
This is nothing more frustrating
than a fairly decent pull request coming in,
but the test fail or the coverage fails or something.
And the person that issued the pull request
doesn't deal with it.
They just leave it for you.
And that's not cool.
So address those.
Only a couple more, push to the same branch with fixes
and do not open a new pull request.
So if the CI breaks, just push to the same branch again.
It'll work.
And then the lastly is be patient.
I know that you've worked really hard on a change
and you wanna see it go into the main project
right away, but these are volunteer projects mostly.
So it might take a while to review it
and be comfortable with the changes.
- Yeah, that's a bit of a balance.
- Yeah.
- It's frustrating when you work on a project,
you try to enhance some project
and then you put something out there
and there's not even a response.
After, you know, like two weeks, you're like,
well, I guess, I don't know.
I don't know what to do with that, you know?
But at the same time, it's absolutely volunteer.
So there you go.
All right, let me tell you about something pretty cool
for this next one, Brian.
I learned about this from Rhett Turnbull.
He and I had a chat over on Talk Python
about building native Mac apps in Python.
Recall, we talked about TechSniper
and he built a Python only equivalent.
And we actually covered on the show a little bit,
but during our conversation there,
this is one of the recommendations he had
for something really cool.
So imagine somebody comes to you and says,
"Hey, Michael, I have a Raspberry Pi or Arduino thing
in my lab and it controls,
let's say this is a biology lab, right?
It controls experiments and you can build up something
with like a UI or whatever, but if people wanna script it,
wouldn't it be cool if there's a way to express
in like some form of syntax,
here's how somebody who is just a biologist can make it go.
It could just be like fill pipette seven,
mix pipette seven and 10, wait 10 minutes,
heat to such and such, right?
You could sure you could come up
with a programming language for them.
You say, well, here's your language,
we're gonna give you C++, good luck.
More ideally, maybe Python or oftentimes JavaScript,
which feels like a real bad example or a choice
because it's kind of a complicated syntactical language,
even though it's easy to execute.
You know, it's like, it's easy to make a mistake
and forget a semicolon or something weird.
Anyway, what if you could come up with the words
that I used to like introduce this idea?
You just have like lines like fill pipette seven,
mix pipette seven and eight or whatever.
And so this thing I'm talking about here is called TextX.
And TextX is a Python library that allows you to build
these kind of grammars and map them to Python implementations in a super easy way.
Wow. Okay.
So, let's see, it's a meta-language for building domain-specific languages, DSLs, in Python.
Basically it'll help you build a textual language in an easy way, and you can invent your own
language, as I said, or build support for an existing format.
So they have an example here.
So they have this grammar, and this is about moving things around, basically drawing something
in a language.
So you come up with a grammar, you'd say there's a shape command, which is just line to or
circle.
There's a move command, which is move to or move by.
And then you just have these words move and then to.
That runs the move to command.
If the line is move space by, that's the move by command.
And then you map to the additional information
to these classes.
So these are all Python classes, right?
So you just come up, this is, what is this?
10 lines, eight lines, something.
And then you create the class,
which is a point and the other pieces.
And you just say meta model from string,
give it the grammar and the classes involved.
And then here's the new language we just created.
move space to five comma 10, line two, 10 comma 10.
How cool is that?
- That's pretty interesting.
- Yeah, you just create the model from there
and then you can just basically parse it.
For command in the model, start doing the things.
If the commands move to or move by,
it's already done the parsing,
it has the command elements like the vector
or the point already parsed and validated.
And it just executes Python.
>> Okay.
>> What do you think?
>> Well, so how do you use it?
So do you put all these commands in
the somebody that put all these move things in a file and then run?
>> Yeah, exactly. So you would implement the code that defines the grammar.
You would implement the grammar classes,
so like point and vector and those things.
Then somebody would write the grammar.
So move space to 5, 10.
And then they'd probably have either a CLI
or they save it in a file in some location
and like you auto-discovered or however it runs.
So basically from an external perspective,
you now allow people to just program in this simple way.
Like another way you could do it is like
you could write like a text adventure game, right?
You could like look around, look at,
move right, move east, west, north, right?
Attack creature, run.
Like you could really easily in Python build
like a pretty interesting text adventure game
based on this, I would imagine.
Probably it already exists.
- Yeah.
Well, yeah, so adventures around.
So we could probably re-implement it with this.
- Yeah. - Might be fun.
- Yeah, that'd be fun.
- But the, this, or like a complete,
like burn, way to burn up a summer.
This, this looks cool though.
There's a whole bunch of cases where DSL is appropriate,
especially when you're interacting
with non-programmer type people.
- Exactly, you wanna give them some kind of text
ability to interact with what you've created,
but you don't wanna force them to do
full-on, super precise programming.
- Yeah, or maybe they're just programmers
and it's just easier to think about stuff in this manner.
Neat.
- Yeah, and just have a real high-level way
to talk about what you want.
- Yeah.
- Indeed.
Cool, anyway, so text X, people can check it out.
Another thing that's pretty awesome,
Compiler from Red Hat, our sponsor this week.
Yeah, let me tell folks about that before we move on.
So this episode, as I said, is sponsored by Compiler.
Just like you, Brian and I are fans of podcasts,
and I'm happy to share this new, highly respected one
from an open source company I'm sure you know,
Compiler, an original podcast from Red Hat.
And if you want to stay on top of tech
without dedicating tons of time to it,
Compiler presents perspectives, topics, and insights
from the tech industry free of jargon and judgment.
They want to discover where technology is headed
beyond headlines and create a place
for new IT professionals to learn, grow, and thrive.
Compiler helps people break through barriers and challenges,
turning code into community
at all levels of the enterprise.
One recent interesting episode is their
The Great Stack Debate episode.
I love, love, love talking to people
about how they architect their code,
the trade-offs and conventions they chose,
and the costs, challenges, and smiles that result.
This one is like that,
this "Migratory State Stack Debate" episode.
Check it out and see if software is more like an onion
or more like lasagna,
or maybe it's more complicated than food.
This is actually the first episode
in Compiler's Software Stack series,
and I think it'll be pretty interesting.
So check that one out.
Learn more about compiler at pythonbytes.fm/compiler.
The link is in your podcast player show notes.
Yes, I know you can open up your podcast player
and just search for compiler,
but please visit pythonbytes.fm/compiler
and click on your podcast player's icon.
That way they know it came from us.
Our thanks to compiler for keeping our podcast going strong.
- Nice, yeah, pretty cool.
- Yeah, all right, what's next, Brian?
- Well, I wanna talk about locks and semaphores
and analogies and stuff.
So on--
- Oh my gosh, I've been thinking about them
so much lately, actually.
- Have you?
- Yes, I have.
So tell me more.
- Well, so this is a blog post by Guido van Rossum.
Doesn't blog often, but there's usually
some interesting bits when he wants to.
So this is a post called
"Reasoning about AsyncIO Semaphore."
So it starts off with a kind of a story about a restaurant.
So there's an analogy here about, okay,
so you got a restaurant, it's a fast food place,
but it only has one table and there's a line waiting for it.
And, but you don't want to just wait in line.
So there's a way for you to get a buzzer.
So somebody hands you a buzzer and you go wait.
And when the table's open, your buzzer rings
and you go get seated and you can eat.
This sort of analogy, he talks about this as a lock.
And then, so with concurrent programming,
so only one person getting it at a time.
But then if you've got multiple tables,
things get a little more interesting.
So that's where semaphores come in.
And I love this mind shift of,
and this is often difficult for people
when they're doing asynchronous programming,
to have this, like lock makes sense.
you know, you're either a thread or a re or some code is using a resource and it can and nobody else can but
at
But then then you unlock it and somebody else can grab it
But what if there's like multi like three people can at a time?
those are some of the different some a little bit of a mind shift
So I love this idea of a three table restaurant as a way to to think about this analogy
and so he goes through the analogy, but then talks about
locks and semaphores and this is apparently to help him himself even with the implementation
of the semaphore in the new acio code so um this and making sure that things like work correctly
and using a using an analogy to try to figure out how things are supposed to work um and like
uh an error so if you've got a an exception happening one of the problems can be it's like
somebody gets buzzed, they're waiting and they decide they don't want to wait anymore,
so they go turn their buzzer in. Well, what happens if while they're, when they're just,
they've decided to turn it in, but it's their turn and they get buzzed and they, but they
turned it in anyway and they don't want to run. So they're never going to call the release
code. And so with the common, the interaction between
cancel and release is, is, is difficult. So there's, there's,
there's all this stuff and it's so cool to think about this in
terms of a restaurant because it's easy to visualize. So any
great article. And then at the end he actually links to the,
to the code that he was, that he's finished writing. So
so the links it to, yeah, current code.
So that's pretty cool.
- Right on.
Yeah, semaphores are, I would say,
these are the things that many people don't really,
they don't really think to grab and use,
but they're so incredibly useful.
Like, so one example, like let's imagine
your job is to go scan a bunch of URLs
and ingest a bunch of data,
and you're gonna run that like 8 a.m. every day
or, you know, whatever.
if you've got 10,000 URLs, it would be way, way, way faster to use asyncio
and HTTPS to kick off those requests. But if you just say for URL in URLs,
start a task, you got 10,000 pending requests and all that data is coming back into memory,
and it's gonna, you're gonna have a bad time, right?
Yeah.
So one thing you could do is you could create a semaphore and say, you know, I only want to allow
and then you just do 10, 20, 100 in-flight requests at a time
and you just create a semaphore of 100
and you just pass it off to every task
and they just have to start at the beginning
and acquire it and release it.
Boom, you're done.
You've now created like a,
I'm going through 10,000 with a straight for loop
and I'm doing nothing more than 100 at a time guaranteed.
- Yeah.
- Beautiful, right?
- That's a really good analogy.
I was trying to think of a good one where,
'cause I was actually even looking through the Python code
of any cases where they use more than one.
Like a semaphore with one is just like a lock,
but if you can allow more than that,
then it gets interesting.
- Yeah, absolutely.
You can think about similar things for like databases
if it like really can't handle a ton of requests.
One thing I, now that you point this out,
I wanna just give a quick shout out to Any.io.
I interviewed Alex, I believe it was Alex from there,
who worked on it, and it's got a really cool idea.
It's similar to the task groups
and stuff that you talked about.
And it has this thing called a capacity limiter,
which is much like a,
it's very much like a semaphore,
but a little more async native,
'cause you can use it in a async context manager,
like a with block, async with.
So here I could create just a capacity limiter
of like my example is 100 and you just say,
async with create a group for all the items,
tasks start soon, pass the limiter
and all the tasks just do like async with this limiter,
do whatever you're gonna do and boom,
now you only get end of them running at a time.
Super easy, very cool.
- Cool.
- Okay, that's not actually what I wanted to cover though.
I wanna talk about some annoying stuff
that got slightly less annoying.
security and preventing people from doing just bad stuff
to your things online, right?
Web apps and mostly web apps.
You know, think about a forum,
people come in there just like bots come in
and start posting junk.
Like, I don't know why YouTube can't fix it,
but I would say about one out of every three shows
gets some sort of like disgusting,
come see the ladies over here sort of post
with clearly text that was like,
Why is this still allowed, right?
And if you run a website, you're going
to run into those kind of problems.
So we had big problems at TalkByThon training
with a bunch of bots creating free accounts.
And they're just free.
You don't get anything by creating an account.
I don't know why they were doing it, but they were.
And so-- but they were doing it from hundreds or thousands
of different IPs.
It was super annoying.
So we ended up having to put a recapture on there.
And every time I go to the site and I've
got to sign in, I'm like, oh gosh, here come the crosswalks
and the stoplights and that's not a bus.
There's no buses, what do you want me to do?
You know, like how frustrating this is.
So Cloudflare, they're doing a bunch of interesting
branching out of just being a CDN
and they've announced this thing called Turnstile,
a user-friendly privacy preserving alternative
to Captcha or Recaptcha.
Like Recaptcha is owned by Google
and like a lot of the stuff that you do there
get sent back over there, and it's not ideal.
So also, finding all the crosswalks, not ideal.
So this thing is something they announced,
and it's free to use, even if you don't have
some kind of other reCAPTCHA thing,
like you're not a customer,
and you just create an account for free,
get an API key for this, and use it.
So here, if you go to the page
that I'm linking to, the blog.cloudflare.com,
all that happens is you go there,
and it just spins for a second.
It does the work and the magic that Cloudflare
is already using to verify that you're a human
and you're a real machine,
maybe do some sort of like cost,
make you run like a tight loop for a second or whatever.
And then you're verified.
And if it doesn't work,
then you can click a little button
and verify you're human, hopefully.
But yeah, so this is pretty cool.
You can now replace your reCAPTCHA with that.
And it's pretty straightforward.
Basically you drop some JavaScript onto the page
and a little widget,
and then you put the widget in your form.
If somebody submits it, it comes with that validation,
like some sort of a validation code
that was created by Cloudflare.
On the server side, you want to verify that
'cause its presence isn't enough
'cause anybody could just send like garbage
with the right form ID, right?
So there's a server side API,
you've got a call to validate that
and make sure that yeah, this is actually,
it came from your domain, it just was created,
it is a real one, it's a unique one and all those things.
- Oh, cool.
- Yeah, so anyway, if people wanna use this,
it seems pretty awesome.
Over on TalkBython, I switched the things over to it
and we'll see how it goes.
So for example, if you wanna get notified
about our mailing list, now you've got to
wait about three quarters of a second
before typing in your email address.
Must feel like some kind of beast
and you can type it in, like select the form,
type your email address and hit subscribe
before like a second is up, right?
But that's pretty much it.
You hit submit and then it runs some magic on the server.
Right?
But I'm doing this live.
I'm gonna check out pypi.org.
If you check out turnstile,
there's a bunch of stuff up here.
There's like rate limiting things and other stuff,
nothing about Cloudflare.
So I created for the moment a GitHub gist
that has the server-side implementation
for anybody who wants to do this in Python,
modern Python anyway.
- Nice.
- Cool, right?
So over here, you just need this one file,
this one module you can use here.
This one's synchronous,
but you could just as well use HTTPX and async
if you wanna do this validation in like an async view.
So it has a Pydantic models,
like here's what you gotta send over.
And here's what you'll expect to get back
from the API endpoints, little examples.
And then it just has one function called validate.
Given the thing they submitted in the form
and their user IP, just so you have that
as part of your information of what happened,
they need to know that.
And that's it, and it's kind of a cool example
of seeing how to do request response
with Pydantic to APIs as well.
- That's pretty cool, nice.
- Yeah.
Awesome. Well, that's a really good stuff. So here's the thing. Right now it's not a
package. I'm not sure I need more open source projects to manage. However, let's say...
I was curious why you didn't make a package out of that.
Well, because I only did this like Monday, right? So it's only... I kind of wanted to
stabilize a little. If sufficiently many people shoot me a text on Twitter, like a @mention
M. Kennedy says, hey, please make this a package
so I can use it too, more directly,
or we could all contribute.
Enough people do that, I'll turn it into a package.
But I just haven't had the time.
'Cause I've been playing with other stuff
that I'll talk about in a minute.
Can only have so many projects, you know.
- Yeah, yeah.
- All right, well, that brings us
to all of our main items, Brian.
- Yeah, so one of the things for extras,
I wanted to pop up just briefly.
I was looking at a,
so I was looking at, oh, let's go to yours too.
Do you have any extras?
- I do have some extras.
- Sweet.
- You go first though, I have a ton.
- Okay, so I just have a couple.
So this article says it's from testdriven.io,
Heroku alternatives for Python-based applications.
And to be fair, it's pretty fair to Heroku also.
So really it isn't don't use Heroku.
It is, it's kind of like,
what are all the things you can use?
So it goes through Heroku, of course,
but then it also goes through,
does the pros and some description and pros and cons
for DigitalOcean app platform and render and fly.io.
And even some that we don't hear too much about
like Engine Yard, Railway.app,
- Yeah, that's a ton of, that's a lot of reviews.
- Yeah, it's pretty neat.
- And you know, these are all in the platform
as a service equivalent, it looks like.
- Yeah.
- It's not like just, here's where you run VMs.
Like, well, okay, that's great,
but that's not what Heroku was for.
- Yeah.
- So, I mean, I think that's a really cool thing.
- And I think that's a really cool thing.
- Yeah.
here's where you run VMs.
Like, well, okay, that's great,
but that's not what Heroku was helping me with.
- Yeah, and so that's actually one of the fair comments.
It says like, for instance, Heroku,
one of the things it says is the price can go up as you,
it's not too bad at the start,
but it can go up as you grow.
And same with all of these really,
but the, and it's how many times more than running it
just directly on AWS.
but it's a be careful because that's not a platform
as a service is not a fair comparison
to just running it all yourself
because then you have to do it all yourself.
- Exactly.
- Kind of paying the service
instead of paying somebody to monitor it for you.
So I think it's reasonable.
So the other thing I wanted to bring up was
we brought it up last time
and maybe the time before the pytest course is going well.
So I'm glad people are getting use out of the pytest course.
But I wanted, I've been kicking around the idea
of doing a cohort based thing,
something like the pytest course,
not the exact same content, but similar sort of things,
get people up to speed and do it as a cohort.
And I'd like people to get in touch with me
if they think that's a good idea.
I'm thinking about maybe doing it in December,
but I'm not sure, December or January.
So hit me up on Twitter,
or you can get to the, my contact form
on testing code as well.
It'll get to me.
So yeah, let me know.
- Those live events are really nice.
All right.
It's a cool experience.
So hopefully that goes off.
- Yeah, that'd be neat.
- Indeed.
All right.
Would you believe that just last night
I was writing some C code?
- No.
- I typically do.
I'm like, come on, another semicolon I forgot.
Are you kidding me?
It's been a while.
But I actually did a pretty good job
without pulling up any references or anything.
So more on that later, but I just wanted to give
a quick shout out to this project called CPP Front
from Herb Sutter.
It's an experimental compiler for an alternative syntax
to C++ that would make the language 10 times simpler,
safer, and more toolable.
I think it basically is, as the name would say,
like CPP Front is like a slightly different language
that compiles to C++.
so it has an interoperability and whatnot.
People do a lot of C++ for low-level integration
with Python and things might find this interesting.
So you can jump over to the GitHub repo,
and they have got some examples in here.
Let me see if I can find that.
I think you've got to maybe go check out the test
or something like that.
They don't have great documentation.
CP2.
It's just text, show it to me.
Oh wait, no, it's not, it's four megs, but it's okay.
Anyway, it's got some pretty funky syntax,
but it also looks pretty fun.
People can check that out.
So if that's interesting, then go for it.
I don't know where I saw the cool examples or something,
but nah, oh well, they had some in here.
What's different about this?
Where did I find them?
Oh, well.
You can look through the notes here.
The language, it hardly looks like C++,
but it's still the same kind of thing.
What do you think about this, Brian?
You do some C.
>>Well, I've been doing it for so long
that I don't know if it's that hard to do C++.
I mean, it's hard to get it right, but there's--
I don't know that we have a lot of help now
with like the modern compilers and linters and everything.
But yeah.
But I thought, I always think it's a neat idea
if it's really easier.
That little snippet you showed me didn't look easier, but.
- Here you go.
Or here's an example.
If you check out this little graphic on the readme
called it says cat hello.cpp2.
- Okay.
- It looks a little bit like Python type pens, doesn't it?
like the way you specify the return value and stuff.
- Yeah.
Anyway, could be fun.
We'll see if it goes anywhere.
All right, a few other things.
TypeScript is definitely something
that's going somewhere.
Matt Kramer pointed out that Jeff Glass
has been doing a bunch of things with PyScript lately.
So I wanna highlight one thing
and then I'm gonna dive into it more next week.
I just wanna put this on people's radar.
So PyScript September edition is out
with lots of changes on it.
So probably the easiest way to see that
is to click on this blog post I got down there.
So if you've been doing any PyScript,
you're gonna wanna know about this
'cause it's like super breaking changes.
So for example, you used to have to say,
use this thing pyenv for configuring
like what libraries you would use
and how you execute it.
that thing's gone.
Now you've got like a package section of a PyConfig
and a path section for files,
a bunch of other things,
better logging, multiple run times,
upgraded Pyrodied and whatnot,
but check that out if you're doing PyScript.
- Nice.
And they're not even zero over yet.
- Yeah.
Well, we're gonna need some kind of like new calendar event
or something. (laughs)
Yeah, 'cause they're Calvary.
- Yeah.
- Follow up, I talked about NextDNS last time.
That's like basically, like for people do pie holes,
it's like pie hole, but it's on the internet,
you don't have to manage it.
I said I didn't really try it out that much last time.
So I went in and I did an interesting experiment
on the family, including myself.
I went to the router and I just changed it
to use this blocking, ad blocking, malware blocking DNS
as like for all the network, which is good
'cause like my TV can no longer do bad things
that it was doing.
My kid gets ad blocking without knowing it,
even visitors, I suppose, right?
And I was like, all right, well, let's see what breaks.
Who has a, Michael, I can't do this anymore.
Like nothing broke, which is great.
So I'm super psyched about that.
And if you create it, actually you can create a free,
what I've learned is you get a free account
for up to 300,000 DNS requirements a month.
And if what happens after that is it just falls back
to like standard DNS with no blocking,
just pretty awesome.
And there's like $2.
There's not an ad for them.
It's just, I think it's pretty awesome.
So I went and ran, I went to adblock-tester.com
With Vivaldi, with its max blocking, no plugins,
no extensions for ad blocking, just the built-in one,
'cause I don't wanna install more extensions.
But with that turned on and the Next DNS, Private DNS,
I get 96 out of 100 on AdBlockTester.
With Brave, I got 100 out of 100, which is pretty awesome.
But even if I turn all the blocking off on Vivaldi,
I still get 80 out of 100 just using that DNS.
That's pretty awesome, right?
It's like 80%, everything is just killed
before it ever gets through the network.
- Oh, I was curious what the number was.
So it's not 80 get through, it's 80 get blocked.
- It's 80 blocked.
So you can actually scroll through, it'll show you.
Like the wildcat Giphy wasn't blocked.
The static image wasn't blocked basically.
But pretty much everything else was blocked.
So, yeah, pretty awesome.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
And last thing here,
one of the things you gotta do to make this work,
this is like a new extra,
but it is like one flows into another.
One of the things you gotta do to make this work
is if your IP address changes and you have a crap router,
I have like an insanely good router
that has crap configuration, let's put it that way,
where I can't do DNS over HTTPS,
or set up any details,
I can just say, here's the four numbers for the DNS server.
- Yeah. - Right?
Just the IP address.
Well, if that's the way you do it,
and you have some account that does blocking,
you've got to go into your DNS account
and associate your IP address with your account
by just like clicking a button or calling an API endpoint.
but what do you do when your IP address changes?
How do you remember?
Like all your ad blocking stops
every time maybe the power goes out
and you gotta like your things come back on
and they get a new IP address.
So I was like, well, what can I do?
I've always wanted to have like a little circuit Python
project that would be fun.
So originally I wanted to get a Raspberry Pi.
Those are unattainable it turns out.
Have you tried to get a Raspberry Pi, Brian?
- Not recently, years ago, but.
- Yeah, I think they're like 35, 40 bucks
for a new nice one, but they're all sold out.
And you can find them on Amazon for like $200.
People have bought them up
and then are scalping them back to you on Amazon,
which is super frustrating. - Lame.
- Lame.
You can find them for about $100 on eBay, right?
Anyway, they're hard to get.
And then if you get them, they're way marked up
and it's kind of frustrating.
Well, what else could I use?
So check this thing out.
See what I got on the screen here?
this, this Adafruit ESP 32 dash S2 feather is a full blown circuit Python and Arduino
basically for $17 and 50 cents.
And it's in stock.
So I got that yesterday.
And just to give you a sense of how small it is, like if you put it in your hand, it's
probably two thirds the size of your hand.
And it's a full 240 megahertz computer,
four megs of RAM,
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, temperature.
But the most important thing is Wi-Fi, make no doubt.
And I see Paul Cutler out there.
Yes, thank you, Paul.
I was actually thinking of you last night
when I was working on this.
It took a bit of time to set up
and it was a little bit painful,
like getting it configured from,
originally it was Arduino, which is C.
So I was writing, I tried to do all this stuff in C,
which basically tried to like call that endpoint
and pull out my IP address and everything seemed fine
except for nothing I could find supports HTTPS and C.
It only, all the rest frameworks
only supported HTTP unencrypted.
I'm like, what endpoint is unencrypted these days?
What is this madness?
Give me some requests.
So I got a CircuitPython going on it.
And now it's happily sitting over there in the corner,
sending me little Rake reports through like,
sort of like Morse code through its LED.
And then, yeah, it's beautiful.
I just plug it into the power and it just goes constantly,
checks my IP address, updates that DNS setting
periodically with an API.
- Okay, so it's monitoring,
and if your IP address changes, it uploads it?
- Yeah, basically it just has to call the API
from the network and that'll go,
well, wherever you're coming from,
that's where we're gonna treat you as being from.
- Okay, nice.
- Yeah, you might say, well, why don't you just run
that Python code on your computer,
because my computer is running a VPN,
which is not the right IP address.
So, all my devices I can't run it on,
I don't want to run a whole computer for it.
So like this thing is incredibly small and cheap,
and it was just a fun project.
- Nice use of that, cool.
- Yeah, yeah, so that was a lot of fun.
A lot of learning, a lot of differences with CircuitPython.
Similar, but then, wait, why doesn't that work?
like, oh, I want to find out, you know, the relative path is,
oh, there's no pathlib. Sorry. Oh, well, let me try again. Let
me find some other way to answer that question. Oh, yeah.
Yep. All right. Well, those are all my items. I know I had a
bunch of extras, but there they are.
That's all right. What do we have a joke?
Oh, you know that we do. So following on like one of the
things I had last night, I was like, God, why? Why can I get
CircuitPython installed in this? And it was when it came out of
the box from Adafruit, maybe I'm missing something,
but it didn't show up as a drive.
It only could be communicated with over the serial port.
And the way that you normally install CircuitPython
is you drag this bootloader just over the drive
and it just restarts and off it goes.
I'm like, well, how do I get this on?
It just wouldn't work, wouldn't work.
I'm trying all these things and eventually I figured
there's like a sequence of little clicks I gotta do
on like some of the buttons to like put it into a mode
then I could do it.
I could have used some help, okay?
So, this woman Annie here, she's got it figured out.
If I just went on to Stack Overflow or to Reddit
or whatever and post that,
people are just gonna ignore it, right?
They're gonna, "Yeah, whatever.
"Newbie, he doesn't know what he's doing.
"Just go away."
However, Annie has another idea.
She says, "Every time I have a programming question
"and I really need help, I post it on Reddit
"and then I log in with another account
to reply to it with an obscenely incorrect answer.
People don't care about helping each other,
but they love correcting others.
This works 100% of the time.
(laughing)
- That's pretty funny.
- Yeah, I bet it works too.
- Yeah.
- Right, if you went in there,
like what you need to do is just type dash R,
you know, Rm dash Rf on forward slash.
(laughing)
No, no, no, don't do that.
- Yeah, it's a different take on it.
- And so I used to do a similar thing of just post a blog post
with the wrong answer or a bad tutorial
and leave comments on and then let people tell me
how much of an idiot I am and then delete that
and write the real post.
- Thank you, I incorporated your changes, really appreciate it.
- I tried to give people credit, of course.
- Of course, of course, awesome.
Well, here's a tip if people need help,
You just gotta have that secondary Reddit account
to get in there and stir the pot.
- Or a friend.
So you ask.
- Or a friend, that's right.
- Tap a friend.
- Hey, could you just come answer this really,
like with this bad answer?
- Yeah.
That's a good idea.
- Indeed. - That's nice.
All right, well, thanks again for a wonderful episode.
- You bet, lots of fun.
Thanks for being here.
See you later, everyone.
- Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]